README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/QuantumBA/tcomb-form-native-builder-components.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/QuantumBA/tcomb-form-native-builder-components)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/QuantumBA/tcomb-form-native-builder-components/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/QuantumBA/tcomb-form-native-builder-components?branch=master)

# tcomb-form-native-builder-components
Set of extra formats, transformers and types for
[tcomb-form-native](https://github.com/gcanti/tcomb-form-native)

This module provide some extra components for `tcomb-form-native` used by
[tcomb-form-native-builder](https://github.com/QuantumBA/tcomb-form-native-builder).
Note that they could make use of some customizations and optimizations provided
by it, making them incompatible with standard `tcomb-form-native`.

## Factories

Factories are responsible of drawing the UI component and do the data
transformations to serialize the info transparent to the user.

### Chips

Allow to get a list of strings as a set of
[chips](https://material.io/guidelines/components/chips.html) buttons.

- style
  - **chipContainer**: style of the *chip* button
  - **rootElement**: style of the *chip* buttons wrapper container

### File

Open a platform native file selector, and give an URI to operate with it.

- style
  - **formGroup**: style of the wrapper container
  - **helpBlock**: style of the help info label
  - **errorBlock**: style of the error info label
- **type**: `mime` type of the files that can be selected. Default: all files

### Image

Show a static image, for example a company logo.

- style
- **uri**: location of the image file

### Submit

- **contentType**: format how the form info will be send to the server. By
  default, it will be send as `multipart/form-data`, but you can also set it as
  `application/json`.
- style
  - **formGroup**: style of the wrapper container
  - **helpBlock**: style of the help info label
  - **errorBlock**: style of the error info label
- **uri**: address where to `POST` the form info

## Transformers

Objects with methods to do the serialization (`format`) and deserialization
(`parse`) between the in-wire data format and the one used on the UI components,
in case they need to be different for some reason.

### arrayStringsFactory(splitter, joiner)

Factory of transformers between a list of strings and a tokenized string. By
default, it will split and join using whitespaces.

## Types

[tcomb](https://github.com/gcanti/tcomb) types with an associated
[custom factory](#Factories) to use with
[tcomb-json-schema](https://github.com/gcanti/tcomb-json-schema). Currently
there's one for each one of the [factories](#factories).

## Formats

Functions to validate if strings are of a specific format. Current available
ones are `date` and `email`.

## processSchema(json)

Special function that accept an extended version of the `tcomb` schema and
transform it in a regular one.

### select

Extension of `select` component, allowing to define an `uri` pointing to a JSON
resource with the entries of the `select` component, and to define the entries
as a list of objects.

- **uri**: alias of `meta.uri` option.
- meta
  - **fieldId**: if entries are defined as a list of objects, path to the value
    to be used as `id`. Default: `id`.
  - **fieldLabel**: if entries are defined as a list of objects, path to the
    value to be used as `label`. Default: `label`.
  - **placeholders**: object mapping the `uri` placeholders with their actual
    value to be used.
  - **uri**: location of the JSON file with the entries of the `select`. entries
    can be defined as a list of strings, a mapping object with formatted as
    `value:label`, or a list of objects with fields `id` and `value`. It can be
    a templated string and make use of placeholders to be fully generated.

Commit message:

Allow to set styles both on description and runtime

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/QuantumBA/tcomb-form-native-builder-components.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/QuantumBA/tcomb-form-native-builder-components)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/QuantumBA/tcomb-form-native-builder-components/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/QuantumBA/tcomb-form-native-builder-components?branch=master)

# tcomb-form-native-builder-components
Set of extra formats, transformers and types for
[tcomb-form-native](https://github.com/gcanti/tcomb-form-native)

This module provide some extra components for `tcomb-form-native` used by
[tcomb-form-native-builder](https://github.com/QuantumBA/tcomb-form-native-builder).
Note that they could make use of some customizations and optimizations provided
by it, making them incompatible with standard `tcomb-form-native`.

## Factories

Factories are responsible of drawing the UI component and do the data
transformations to serialize the info transparent to the user.

All the components can define their style both by definition or runtime options,
and they'll be combined. To set a component as centered and shrinked, just set
its style to `{flexDirection: 'row', justifyContent: 'center'}`.

### Chips

Allow to get a list of strings as a set of
[chips](https://material.io/guidelines/components/chips.html) buttons.

- style
  - **chipContainer**: style of the *chip* button
  - **rootElement**: style of the *chip* buttons wrapper container

### File

Open a platform native file selector, and give an URI to operate with it.

- style
  - **formGroup**: style of the wrapper container
  - **helpBlock**: style of the help info label
  - **errorBlock**: style of the error info label
- **type**: `mime` type of the files that can be selected. Default: all files

### Image

Show a static image, for example a company logo.

- style
- **uri**: location of the image file

### Submit

- **contentType**: format how the form info will be send to the server. By
  default, it will be send as `multipart/form-data`, but you can also set it as
  `application/json`.
- style
  - **formGroup**: style of the wrapper container
  - **helpBlock**: style of the help info label
  - **errorBlock**: style of the error info label
- **uri**: address where to `POST` the form info

## Transformers

Objects with methods to do the serialization (`format`) and deserialization
(`parse`) between the in-wire data format and the one used on the UI components,
in case they need to be different for some reason.

### arrayStringsFactory(splitter, joiner)

Factory of transformers between a list of strings and a tokenized string. By
default, it will split and join using whitespaces.

## Types

[tcomb](https://github.com/gcanti/tcomb) types with an associated
[custom factory](#Factories) to use with
[tcomb-json-schema](https://github.com/gcanti/tcomb-json-schema). Currently
there's one for each one of the [factories](#factories).

## Formats

Functions to validate if strings are of a specific format. Current available
ones are `date` and `email`.

## processSchema(json)

Special function that accept an extended version of the `tcomb` schema and
transform it in a regular one.

### select

Extension of `select` component, allowing to define an `uri` pointing to a JSON
resource with the entries of the `select` component, and to define the entries
as a list of objects.

- **uri**: alias of `meta.uri` option.
- meta
  - **fieldId**: if entries are defined as a list of objects, path to the value
    to be used as `id`. Default: `id`.
  - **fieldLabel**: if entries are defined as a list of objects, path to the
    value to be used as `label`. Default: `label`.
  - **placeholders**: object mapping the `uri` placeholders with their actual
    value to be used.
  - **uri**: location of the JSON file with the entries of the `select`. entries
    can be defined as a list of strings, a mapping object with formatted as
    `value:label`, or a list of objects with fields `id` and `value`. It can be
    a templated string and make use of placeholders to be fully generated.
